Booking Terms
How to Book
If you would like to book our safaris listed in this website, simply fill our online form with the relevant safari book button with all information required and submit. We will respond to you promptly to give you a quotation and availability. After confirming with us, we will go ahead and secure you a reservation and send you a confirmed invoice as confirmation of services booked.

Deposit
We might require you to pay a deposit so as to successfully reserve your Itinerary and the balance cleared before the safari commences.

Payments
We accept payment by wire transfers and M-PESA which will be shared after we receive your booking details.

Responsibility
Travels carry a measure of Risk. Bookings are accepted on the specific condition that paws and treks only act as agent of clients in the matter related to hotels, sightseeing, restaurants, all transportation from the services included in the tour. paws and treks purchase the services from suppliers and other independent contractors without warranties and representations from them. Thus, such services are subjected to its control.

The right is reserved to substitute hotels of comparable status and make any change in itinerary where deemed necessary or caused as a result of adverse weather conditions, disruption to airline schedules or any valid reason. While precaution are taken to ensure passenger safety and comfort on tour, Paws and Treks and its agencies shall not be liable for deaths arising from itinerary any cause and any manner whatsoever or change of itinerary or act including terrorism, Natural calamity and government, accident, error of commission caused by supplier or independent contractors, their employees, representative or any other event beyond us.

All Baggage is carried at passenger's own risk, and we reserve the right to exclude certain baggage to its discretion. The airline used to provide flight services within Kenya are subjected to international air conventions limiting its liability and are printed at the back of airline Ticket. These convention form terms and condition for these package.

Reservations and payments

All prices quoted are US Dollars.
Payment is acceptable in any freely convertible currency at the prevailing rate at the time of exchange
We accept payment by bank transfers and M-PESA
A deposit of 25% is required at the time of booking
The balance should be cleared before commencement of the tour
If bookings are made 20 days or less, the full amount should be paid.
The company reserves the right to cancel any booking if the above terms are not met.
Tour prices

The price quoted is inclusive of transportation according to the itinerary.
Full board meal plan on accommodation in lodges, half board on Beach hotels and Bed and breakfast on city hotels
Tour prices do not include visa fees, local departure taxes, and any excess baggage charges, tipping and items of personal nature for example drinks, laundry and telephone calls.
Rates are subject to change depending on the prevailing tariffs.
Passports and visas

Valid passports are required for travel to the destinations in our brochure.
Check with your travel agent or Paws and Treks Tours for the latest visa requirements.
Tour Alterations

The company reserves the right to alter any tour arrangement or cancel the operation should any condition necessitate.
The right is also reserved to decline or refrain to accept any person as a member of a group.
An equitable amount will be refunded accordingly.
Cancellations

Cancellations must be received in writing.
Refund for cancellation will depend upon the duration of cancellation prior, that is:
– 40 – 60 days – full refund less USD $40.00 administration fee
– 14 – 35 days – 25% of the tour price
– 02- 14 days – 40% of the tour price
– Under 2 days and no shows – NO REFUND
Liability

Bookings are accepted on the condition that Paws and Treks Tours and its agents acts as agents for the passenger in hotel/lodge accommodation, transport and tours and will not be liable for loss, delay, injury, accident or damage arising when the passenger is being carried in transport owned by the company.
The company owns the right to subcontract the service agreed to be supplied, wholly or partially, in the event in which the company liability clause shall apply.
The respective laws of the country govern the liability to the company transportation.
Other claims are subject to the jurisdiction courts in the country in which the cause arises.
The company accepts no liability, whatsoever for loss, theft or damage to the clients’ baggage; however, utmost care will be used while handling the same. Baggage insurance is highly recommended.
Paws and Treks will not accept responsibility for additional expenses or losses due to changes in airlines schedules or delays or any other factor caused by force majeure such as civil strife, war, quarantine etc.
Refunds and claims

Refunds are not made for any missed services, except for verifiable extenuating circumstances.
For verifiable claims to be considered, they must be received in writing within 30 days of the termination of the program and be accompanied by supporting documentation and/or a statement from the Operating Company verifying the claim. Any adjustment considered will be based on the actual price of the services involved and not on a per diem basis. Adjustments will not be made for unused sightseeing trips or meals.
Paws and Treks will not accept any liability for any claims that are not received within 30 days of the termination of your travel program. All claims for days missed while traveling should be made in writing within 30 days of the termination of the program.
Traveler representation

The Traveler represents that neither he nor she nor anyone traveling with him or her has any physical or other condition or disability that could create a hazard to him/her or other members of the tour.
Paws and Treks reserve the right to decline to accept anyone on a trip and reserves the right to remove from the trip, at his or her sole expense, anyone whose condition is such that he or she could create a hazard to himself or others, or otherwise impact the enjoyment of other passengers on the trip.
Air transportation

We shall arrange the best-priced airfares available in the class of travel desired by the passengers.

Travel Information
Visas
All visitors to Kenya are required to have valid passports. Visas are also required for visitors who are not citizens of the commonwealth countries in order to enter Kenya. At present visitors from Germany, Denmark, Norway, San Marino, Sweden, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Finland, Spain, Turkey and Uruguay do not require visas. However, since visa requirements may change, it is advisable for the visitors to check the current visa requirements through airlines, tour operators or Kenya Tourist Offices, Kenya Embassies or High Commissions in their countries before coming, to avoid embarrassment. Visas normally take up to six weeks to process and are valid for up to a three-month period. Those visitors with proper documents and who also possess onward or return tickets may be given visitor’s passes free of charge on arrival at any Kenyan point of entry.

During the three months period, the visitors’ pass holders are not allowed to engage themselves in any form of work or business in the country without authority from the Principal Immigration officer. Visitors without proper documents will be required to pay a refundable deposit before they are issued with visitor passes.

Weather
Kenya enjoys a tropical climate. It is hot and humid at the coast, temperate inland and very dry in the north and northeast parts of the country.
The average annual temperature for the coastal town of Mombasa (altitude 17 metres) is 30.30 Celsius maximum and 22.40 Celsius minimum, the capital city, Nairobi (altitude 1,661 metres) 25.20 Celsius maximum and 13.60 Celsius minimum, Eldoret (altitude 3,085) 23.60 Celsius maximum and 9.50 Celsius minimum, Lodwar (altitude) 506 metres) and the drier north plainlands 34.80 Celsius maximum and 23.70 Celsius minimum.
There is plenty of sunshine all the year round and summer clothes are worn throughout the year. However, it is usually cool at night and early in the morning.
The long rains occur from April to June and short rains from October to December. The rainfall is sometimes heavy and when it does come it often falls in the afternoons and evenings. The hottest period is from February to March and coldest in July to August.

The annual migration of wildlife between Serengeti National Park in Tanzania and Maasai Mara National Park in Kenya takes place between June and September. The migration of almost two million wildebeest, zebras and other species is nature’s greatest spectacle on earth. The animal trek has been captured by filmmakers worldwide.

Useful Tips

Baggage
Baggage space on safari is restricted to one medium suitcase or per person, plus hand baggage (private safaris where there are less than 7 persons in the vehicle are not subject to this restriction).Hotels will normally store baggage at no extra cost. A baggage weight restriction of 15 kg per person applies on air safaris. Where very small aircraft are used this may be reduced to 10kg.

Currency
Hard currencies can be exchanged in cash M-PESA or traveler's cheques at banks all over the country, at forex bureaus in Nairobi and at most large hotels. US Dollars and Sterling Pounds are most acceptable and will cause the least delay. As a norm, always ask what commission and charges will be deducted first and prior to transaction. Banks are usually open from 9.00 am to 3.00 pm, Mondays through Fridays and from 9.00 am and 11.00 am on Saturdays.

Credit Cards
VISA, MASTERCARD and AMERICAN EXPRESS are widely accepted for tourist services. There’s usually a % mark-up on top of the price as establishments are charged a fixed percentage of their transactions.

Health
Since rules concerning disease prevention change from time to time, a check should be made with the nearest Kenyan High Commission, Kenya Tourist Office or any airline flying scheduled services into Kenya. Malaria is endemic to most parts of Kenya and intending visitors should start taking anti-malarial tablets before departure and continue taking them for the prescribed time after their return. Insect repellents should be made use of after dusk and suitable cover up clothes should be worn in the evenings.

Flying Doctors Society
Membership of the Flying Doctors Society is strongly recommended. In event of accident or sickness while on safari, the society will fly patients by air ambulance to Nairobi for admittance to hospital.

Drinking Water
Drinking water from the tap must be considered risky. Hotels and lodges usually furnish safe water in a thermos flask in guest rooms. Bottled mineral water is available in every hotel and supermarket.

Security
Normal precautions as in any other destination world-wide should be taken. Visitors are advised not to leave cash and valuables in their hotel rooms but to make use of safe deposit boxes and safes. One should never carry large sums in cash and women should keep a tight grip on handbags in crowds or busy streets. Jewelry snatching is quite common in city streets. As in all major cities walking alone or in small groups at night should be considered a hazard and avoided.
Reliable taxis are available at all the principal hotels. Taking photographs at airports, near military installations, of policeman, the president, the national flag, the State House, state lodges, soldiers, prisons and prisoners etc., is prohibited. Before photographing local people, permission should be obtained and a fixed price agreed. Seek the assistance of your driver/guide in this matter.

Voltage
Both mains electricity and generated supply in lodges provide 240 volts AC 50 cycles. Most large hotels and some game lodges provide shaving points with 110v 50 cycles. Sockets are normally three pin and of the ‘square’ variety.

Tipping and Porterage
Although hotels and lodges include a service charge, it is customary to tip porters, waiters, taxi drivers and safari drivers/guides.

Language
Kiswahili is the national language while English is the official language. In addition, most tribes have their own language.

Post and Telephones
Keeping in touch by mail and telephone is generally easy. Direct overseas dialing is possible from major centers and increasingly from remote places such as game lodges. Call home bureaus are in plenty in Nairobi as are the Cyber café for e-mail and Internet access.

Arrivals and Departures
Kenya has two main ports of entry by air: Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Nairobi. Located 16 km from the city center. Moi International Airport, Mombasa. Located 12 km from the town center. Mombasa is the main port of entry by sea.

Airport Departure Tax
International Airport departure tax per person is payable on departure from the International airports. A local airport service charge is also payable on departure for domestic flights. As this varies from country to country, please check with us on the prevailing amounts payable prior to your flight departure.

Opening and Shopping Hours
Major stores, tourist services, offices and museums open from 8.00 am to 5.00 PM in large towns though offices often break for lunch. In rural areas and out in the bush small shops can be open at almost any hour. Souvenirs to take back home can include wood and soap stone sculptures and carvings, sisal baskets, beadwork and tribal regalia, masks, textiles and gemstones set in unique jewelry pieces.